German government lawyers will argue at
the un's top court that Berlin's support
for Israel does not breach international
law this on the second day of a hearing
at the international court of justice in
the ha the case has been brought by
Nicaragua which accuses Germany of quote
facilitating genocide in the Gaza Strip
by supplying weapons to Israel the head
of Germany's legal team calls
Nicaragua's case grossly
biased Nicaragua's case against Germany
has two main goals to Halt Berlin's
military exports to Israel and to
restart German funding for the un's
Palestinian refugee
agency their argument that Germany's
actions are in breach of the genocide
convention Germany is failing to honor
its own obligation to prevent genocide
or to ensure respect of international
humanitarian law Germany's supply of
arms to Israel is a central pillar of
Nicaragua's case Germany is Israel's
second largest armed supplier behind the
United States accounting for about 30%
of all Israel's weapon Imports Nicaragua
argues that by continuing to provide
these weapons Germany is enabling Israel
to commit acts of genocide in Gaza the
international court of justice is
currently examining whether Israel has
committed genocide in a separate case
launched by South
Africa in bringing this case before the
court Nicaragua says it is acting on
behalf of the Palestinian people I mean
this is a very important
case obviously for our Palestinian
Brothers but also for the people of
Nicaragua as you may have heard in our
expression in Nicaragua we have enormous
sympathy with the Palestinians with the
suffering the Palestinian people are
going
through and that's why we felt that we
had to do something obviously the only
thing in Kwa can do is use the few
recourses it has and one of the few
things that Nicaragua had is some
experience with the international court
of
justice close ties between Nicaragua and
Palestinian organizations date back to
1979 when Palestinian groups supported
the Sandinista Guerilla forces that
overthrew Nicaragua's
dictatorship Germany's staunch support
of Israel goes back to just after the
second world war the German government
sees support ing Israel's security as a
historical responsibility for Germany's
actions in the
Holocaust Berlin categorically rejects
Nicaragua's
accusations Germany does not and never
did violate the genocide convention nor
International humanitarian law either
directly nor
indirectly Germany will get its chance
to make its case in court on
Tuesday for more let's bring in the W
correspondent Luc Schon she's at the icj
in the ha good to see you again Lucia
now yesterday Nicaragua claimed Germany
was quote facilitating genocide today
it's Germany's turn to take the stand
how will the delegation respond to these
accusations yeah so it is expected that
Germany is going to reject these
allegations we've already heard
yesterday from the German agent that
Germany is saying that this Nicaragua
presentation was grossly biased that
Germany does and did not violate the
genocide convention and international
humanitarian law and that it is on the
contrary committed to upholding
international law uh in the in the
international um uh in in its
international relations and it is going
to show today in detail how it does this
and how it lives up to its
responsibilities Germany has said so in
about 2 hours um Germany will start with
its defense and um we will then see what
are the main arguments Germany is going
to make to um show on the legal side uh
how it is doing that and that it does
not do or how it says how it's going to
prove that Nicaragua's um accusations
are not valid in their opinion and those
are grave accusations that Nicaragua is
Raising what evidence are they building
their case
on so Nicaragua has been mainly talking
yesterday about um weapon deliveries of
Germany to Israel um Germany is indeed
uh after uh is after the United States
uh one of the main support is with
weapons there is um C pre numbers um
that Germany does provide 30% um of the
weapons uh to Israel and um this is the
main argument I would say that um we
have heard yesterday here from Nicaragua
they have been giving numbers official
German numbers to prove that and um it
is expected also that Germany will
answer to this and give their take um of
what they're delivering and what that
actually means okay so after today's
session the court will have heard both
sides what's going to happen
next yeah what is really important at
this stage to mention is that we are at
the stage of provisional measures so at
this stage Nicaragua is asking the court
to order Germany to mainly stop sending
military Ed to Israel as well as to
start funding unra again for these
provisional measures it is there is
another test so to say then for the main
case so these provisional measures are
expected to come relatively early within
weeks some people even say within two
weeks this might already be the case
that we have a first answer a first
decision by the court and then it might
move on to a latest to the latest stages
uh to possibly a case on the merits but
this is expect expected to take much
longer L Shelton in the he thank you so
much well Pro Palestinian protesters
gathered outside the German Embassy in
Washington to show their support for
Nicaragua's KC W's Benjamin Alvarez
reports these protesters are supporting
the case brought before the icj accusing
Germany of facilitating genocide stop
this genocide different NOS have called
for protest is not only here in front of
the German Embassy in Washington DC but
also in front of the German un mission
in New York and several other consulates
they say that Germany is the second
biggest exporter of weapons to Israel is
facilitating genocide in Gaza supporting
the claims by narwa and they also handed
a letter over to diplomatic stuff here
saying that Germany should stop sending
weapons to Israel immediately Germany is
supporting uh Israel no matter what they
are complicit in the crimes that Israel
is committing
and I feel deeply ashamed about it as a
German this sets precedent for us to
then turn and go back to our government
and say stop arming genocide stop
breaking both our domestic laws the
foreign assistance act and stop breaking
International humanitarian law we're
here today to um let them know that
we're we're aware of what of their
complicity in the genocide after handing
over the letter at the embassy
organizers Express disappointment with
the response they got from diplomatic
stat
Germany rejects Nicaragua's accusations
as baseless and will present its
argument on the second day of hearings
in
the Mela lski heads the human rights Hub
of the fan Foundation For Freedom a
foundation affiliated with Germany's
free Democrats one of the parties in
Germany's government Coalition Mela good
to have you on DW now you say
Nicaragua's case is a political red
herring but if the court were to
determine that Israel is indeed
committing genocide it is currently
still deliberating on this separate case
in the Gaza Strip would Germany has the
second biggest weapons supplier to
Israel not bear a certain
responsibility well good morning first
of all Germany has always a
responsibility as a weapon supplier of
course that's true but Nicaragua argues
that Germany violates its legal
obligations of the genocide convention
what Nicaragua did successfully if I may
say to point a finger towards Germany
and naturally people follow the
direction of the finger but we should
turn around and look into into the
direction of the arm so that means that
actually it was not a coincidence that
Nicaragua submitted the application
exactly on the 1 March of 2024 against
Germany because the day before in the
late afternoon of the 29th February here
in genev at the UN Human Rights Council
the experts of the UN Human Rights group
on Nicaragua presented their report on
grave human rights violations in the
Central American country we we do want
to talk about the direction the finger
is pointing though because you know
Israel of course has a right to defend
itself against tamas Germany is
assisting them in this endeavor um but
providing 30% of all arms to Israel with
all of these uh allegations of the rules
of War being broken in Gaza is Germany
downplaying its role in
this no absolutely not I mean it's a
legal accusation that's true and Germany
as you've said in your report will
reject Nicaragua's accusation and
respond this morning before the court in
the he but what we have to know is that
Nicaragua does not allow access to
justice to all its citizens so this is
really an important is issue here
because Nicaragua gets the media
attention and it's not about genocide
it's not about Israel and Gaza it's
about Nicaragua putting itself on the
stage of international Justice in the he
today all right and Nicaragua um once
again they also accuse the UK and the
Netherlands and Canada of abetting
genocide I do want to look at the case
at the icj today it's very interesting
what's happening in Nicaragua but but
just to focus on what is happening today
how big could this case
become well I suppose that the outcome
of the case today it's not a case yet so
icj has not adopted it accepted it as a
case it's really a first hearing today
and yesterday was the hearing by
Nicaragua so the outcome will probably
that the Court decides it will not
accept the case before the official in
main case South Africa against Israel
will be decided so I do not expect the
case to become biger
um well if they do not throw the case
out um how do you think it could affect
or if if the court ended up let's say
ruling in favor of Nicaragua how could
it affect Germany's policies in the
Middle
East well I cannot uh really say
something about the effect because from
my point of view and I'm a legally
expert and I'm an expert political
expert on International Justice and from
my point of view they will not be an
outcome it's really the case is really
from Nicaragua side is an awareness
raising and getting media attention
really and putting itself on the case
and on the stage of international
Justice in the all right that was M
lisovski head of the human rights Hub of
the fish nowan Foundation For Freedom
thank you so much for your time thank
you very
much